CouchDB.md, before:

### Basic setup

Edit CouchDB configuration file located in /etc/couchdb/local.ini and set bind_address to the required IP.
Then restart CouchDB as follows:
```
$ sudo service couchdb restart
```

### Configure your instances
Now you need to configure every Faraday instance so it can connect to CouchDB.

* If you're using the Qt interface, go to Edit->Server Connection to point to server. For example; http://192.168.1.254:5984/

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/change_server.png)

* If you are using the --gui=no-gui option

Edit the file: `~/.faraday/config/user.xml`
And search for the following tags and set them, normally is like this:

`<last_workspace>workspace</last_workspace>`

`<couch_uri>http://127.0.0.1:5984</couch_uri>`

### Web UI
You can access the web UI going to http://[your_couch_ip]:5984/reports/_design/reports/index.html.
More information [here](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday/wiki/Usage#web-ui)

### SSL
1) Enable the httpsd daemon by adding the following line to your local.ini or local_dev.ini (newly generated files include this setting but commented out);
```
[daemons]
httpsd = {couch_httpd, start_link, [https]}
```
2) Tell CouchDB about your SSL server keys (PEM encoded);
```
[ssl]
cert_file = /full/path/to/server_cert.pem
key_file = /full/path/to/server_key.pem
password = keypassword
;port = 6984
```
For information on *how to generate self singned certificates* you can read [Apache's FAQ on how to do this](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=48203146).

For more information on *path handling*:
On windows, the path format needs to be one of the following:
* fully specified windows path with slashes inverted, and spaces escaped: c:/program\\files/couchdb/etc/config/couchdb/<your.pem>
* unix-style path, assuming that the root / will be the root of the drive that couchdb is installed to: /program\ files/couchdb/etc/config/couchdb/<your.pem>
* relative path, to the %COUCH%/bin folder: ../etc/couchdb/<your.pem>

3) Restart CouchDB.
CouchDB should now accept SSL connections on, by default, port 6984.

#### Troubleshooting
To ensure that the issue is not with your certificates, test from the command line using
```
$ curl -k -v https://127.0.0.1:6984/
```
You can test your certificates separately using:
```
$ openssl s_server -key <keyfile> -cert <certfile> -www
```
#### Using the certificate in your Faraday instance
If you're using a valid certificate, you're good to go.

If not, run Faraday's launcher with a flag --cert is needed, where the path points to your certificate, NOT your key. This is a security workaround that allow users to use their own signed certificates.
```
./faraday.py --cert /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt
```

### Authentication
#### Commercial

You can create different types of users through the web UI. Those users can login though the same web UI or though a Faraday client using the --login flag (Faraday will ask for the credentials later)

#### Community
You can use the couchdb _utils http://127.0.0.1:5984/_utils/ interface to create administrator users, and then edit the couchdb url in your instance with the user's credendials. For example: http://admin:faradaypassword@192.168.1.254:5984/

Commit message:

first silly wiki changes for v2

CouchDB.md, after:

### Basic setup


Faraday Server needs to comunicate to Couch Databases to function. In order to set up the server,
we'll first configure and run couchdb.

Edit CouchDB configuration file located in /etc/couchdb/local.ini and set bind_address to the required IP.
Then restart CouchDB as follows:
```
$ sudo service couchdb restart
```

### Configure your instances
Now you need to configure every Faraday instance so it can connect to CouchDB.

* If you're using the Qt interface, go to Edit->Server Connection to point to server. For example; http://192.168.1.254:5984/

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/change_server.png)

* If you are using the --gui=no-gui option

Edit the file: `~/.faraday/config/user.xml`
And search for the following tags and set them, normally is like this:

`<last_workspace>workspace</last_workspace>`

`<couch_uri>http://127.0.0.1:5984</couch_uri>`

### SSL
1) Enable the httpsd daemon by adding the following line to your local.ini or local_dev.ini (newly generated files include this setting but commented out);
```
[daemons]
httpsd = {couch_httpd, start_link, [https]}
```
2) Tell CouchDB about your SSL server keys (PEM encoded);
```
[ssl]
cert_file = /full/path/to/server_cert.pem
key_file = /full/path/to/server_key.pem
password = keypassword
;port = 6984
```
For information on *how to generate self singned certificates* you can read [Apache's FAQ on how to do this](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=48203146).

For more information on *path handling*:
On windows, the path format needs to be one of the following:
* fully specified windows path with slashes inverted, and spaces escaped: c:/program\\files/couchdb/etc/config/couchdb/<your.pem>
* unix-style path, assuming that the root / will be the root of the drive that couchdb is installed to: /program\ files/couchdb/etc/config/couchdb/<your.pem>
* relative path, to the %COUCH%/bin folder: ../etc/couchdb/<your.pem>

3) Restart CouchDB.
CouchDB should now accept SSL connections on, by default, port 6984.

#### Troubleshooting
To ensure that the issue is not with your certificates, test from the command line using
```
$ curl -k -v https://127.0.0.1:6984/
```
You can test your certificates separately using:
```
$ openssl s_server -key <keyfile> -cert <certfile> -www
```
#### Using the certificate in your Faraday instance
If you're using a valid certificate, you're good to go.

If not, run Faraday's launcher with a flag --cert is needed, where the path points to your certificate, NOT your key. This is a security workaround that allow users to use their own signed certificates.
```
./faraday.py --cert /etc/ssl/certs/server.crt
```

### Authentication
#### Commercial

You can create different types of users through the web UI. Those users can login though the same web UI or though a Faraday client using the --login flag (Faraday will ask for the credentials later)

#### Community
You can use the couchdb _utils http://127.0.0.1:5984/_utils/ interface to create administrator users, and then edit the couchdb url in your instance with the user's credendials. For example: http://admin:faradaypassword@192.168.1.254:5984/
