Installation.md, before:

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Debian & Ubuntu & Backtrack](#debian)
* [ArchLinux](#arch)
* [Kali](#kali)
* [OSX Maverick 10.9.2](#osx)
* [Docker](#docker)
* [Chef](#chef)


### Requirements

Modern Linux or OSX, and the following packages:

<a name="packages"></a>
* Python 2.6.x or 2.7.x
* Qt3 (only Linux)
* CouchDB >= 1.2.0  
* The following python libs:
  * mockito 
  * couchdbkit 
  * whoosh 
  * argparse 
  * psycopg2
  * IPy
  * requests

If you want you to use our [[experimental GTK interface|Usage#gtk-gui]], you will also need the following packages. They are available in major Linux distributions via their repositories and on Mac via brew.

* GTK+3
* pygobject
* Vte 2.91
* zsh
* curl

Current tests include [Debian](#debian), [Ubuntu](#debian), [Kali](#kali), [Backtrack](#debian) and [OSX Maverick 10.9.2](#osx).

If instead of installing you want to take a quick look at Faraday you can also use [Docker](#docker).

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="debian"></a>
### Debian, Ubuntu, Backtrack

<a name="install"></a>
Download the [latest tarball](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday/tarball/master) or clone the [Faraday Git Project](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday repository):

```
$ git clone https://github.com/infobyte/faraday.git faraday-dev
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./install.sh
$ ./faraday.py
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="kali"></a>
### Kali

To install Faraday with APT:

```
apt-get install python-faraday
```

Due to Kali's package updates this may not be the last version. If you want the latest updates use the [Debian install steps](#debian).

[ [index] ](#index)


<a name="arch"></a>
### ArchLinux

Before [installing Faraday](#install) you will need to get some user-contributed packages. In order to do this quickly we need an [AUR](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository) wrapper, in this case we will use [Yaourt](http://archlinux.fr/yaourt-en). After installing Yaourt run:

```
$ yaourt -S python2-whoosh pyqt3 python2-mockito python2-couchdbkit python2-flask python2-restkit python2-ipy python2-requests python2-tornado python2-dateutil python2-colorama python2-pip mime-types
```

Now you can proceed to [install Faraday](#install).

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="osx"></a>
### OSX

Tested on OSX Maverick 10.9.2.

##### Xcode 

Go to AppStore and install Xcode. If you run **brew install** first, it'll ask to install Xcode too.

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/xcode.png)

Keep in mind that Xcode is 2+ Gb so it can take a while to download. After this is done go to **Preferences** and install command line tools or open a terminal console and run:

```
xcode-select --install
```

A dialog box will appear asking to install additional tools as shown in the image below. Click install.

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/confirm.png)


**Important!** Before proceeding with the rest of this guide you need to **open Xcode at least once** in order to accept the License Agreement. Please make sure you do that or else some of the dependencies will fail to install.

##### Brew

To install [Brew](http://brew.sh) run:

```
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

##### Python & pip

Run:

```
brew install python
```

Remember never to run brew as root.

More info about [Python in OSX](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/osx/).

##### Git

We need Git in order to get Faraday from Github. Run:

```
brew install git
```

##### Faraday

Run:

```
git clone https://github.com/infobyte/faraday.git faraday-dev
```

##### Python libraries via PIP

Installing Python via brew will also install pip. Now we need to use pip to install the [requirements](#packages):

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

If you have issues building psycopg2 (needed for Metasploit Online Module)

```
brew install postgresql
pip install psycopg2
```

##### CouchDB 

There are two options for this package; [Prebuild Package](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi?path=/couchdb/binary/mac/1.6.1/Apache-CouchDB-1.6.1.zip) or use brew:

`brew install couchdb`

On Maverick 10.9.2:

`sudo ARCHFLAGS=-Wno-error=unused-command-line-argument-hard-error-in-future pip install -r requirements.txt`

##### ZSH

Faraday needs [ZSH](http://www.zsh.org/) to connect to the server. To install it run:

`brew install zsh`

##### Going for it!

Almost there! Start Faraday's server:

```
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./faraday.py --gui=nogui
```

and in another terminal run:

```
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./faraday-terminal.zsh
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="docker"></a>
### Docker

Docker is great if you wish to give Faraday a try without actually having to install it. In this guide you will find all you need to run Faraday in a Docker container.

If you already tried Faraday and you are ready to use it for real we strongly recommend that you install it in your host OS.

##### Starting up Faraday

Run:

```
# docker run -t -i infobyte/faraday /root/run.sh
```

This command runs the container with Faraday and CouchDB using a test Workspace called "workspace". Inside, Faraday is started with **./faraday.py -gui=no-gui --update** which means without a graphic environment and checking for  [[updates]].

Now to obtain the container's IP address run:

```
docker inspect $(docker ps -lq) | grep \"IPAddress
```

For the purpose of this guide lets use **X.X.X.X**.

##### Web UI
Direct the browser to http://X.X.X.X/reports/_design/reports/index.html

##### ZSH
```
ssh root@X.X.X.X
cd faraday/
./faraday-terminal.zsh
```

##### GUI QT

In order to use this interface run:

```
# docker run infobyte/faraday /root/run_service.sh
```

And now in a different console, get the IP address:
```
# docker inspect $(docker ps -lq) | grep \"IPAddress
```

Again, for the purpose of this guide lets use **X.X.X.X**.

```
# ssh -X root@X.X.X.X
# cd faraday/
# ./faraday.py
```

Keep in mind that all tools must be installed inside the Docker container in order to work.

##### Importing Reports

A different way to upload data into Faraday is importing a Report from other tools using a Plugin. Read more about [plugin types](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday/wiki/Plugin-List#types).

In order to do this copy the report to **$HOME/.faraday/report/[workspace_name]** replacing [workspace_name] with the name of your Workspace. Once it has been processed and incorporated to the database the report is copied to **$HOME/.faraday/report/[workspace_name]/process**.

We can do this by copying the reports to the containers via sFTP or we can use a file sharing function between the host server and containers.

For example:

```
# mkdir -p /tmp/workspace/process
# cd /root/.faraday/report/workspace/
# docker run -t -i -v /tmp/workspace/:/root/.faraday/report/workspace/ infobyte/faraday /root/run.sh
```

Now we can use the tools inside the host server and this is going to be interpreted as if it were inside the container for Faraday in the Workspace called "workspace".

To run nmap:

```
# nmap localhost -xO /tmp/workspace/output_nmap.xml
```

Import a Report:

```
# cp /root/reports/nessusscan.nessus /tmp/workspace/
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="chef"></a>
### Chef

If you want to deploy Faraday using Chef, [Sliim](https://github.com/Sliim) made a cookbook for it! You can find it [here](https://github.com/sliim-cookbooks/faraday/).

[ [index] ](#index)

Commit message:

added kali example for get dependencies

Installation.md, after:

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Debian & Ubuntu & Backtrack](#debian)
* [ArchLinux](#arch)
* [Kali](#kali)
* [OSX Maverick 10.9.2](#osx)
* [Docker](#docker)
* [Chef](#chef)


### Requirements

Modern Linux or OSX, and the following packages:

<a name="packages"></a>
* Python 2.6.x or 2.7.x
* Qt3 (only Linux)
* CouchDB >= 1.2.0  
* The following python libs:
  * mockito 
  * couchdbkit 
  * whoosh 
  * argparse 
  * psycopg2
  * IPy
  * requests

If you want you to use our [[experimental GTK interface|Usage#gtk-gui]], you will also need the following packages. They are available in major Linux distributions via their repositories and on Mac via brew.

* GTK+3
* pygobject
* Vte 2.91
* zsh
* curl

In Kali, for example, you can get all of these packages with:
```
sudo apt-get install gir1.2-gtk-3.0 gir1.2-vte-2.91 python-pip python-gobject zsh curl
```

Current tests include [Debian](#debian), [Ubuntu](#debian), [Kali](#kali), [Backtrack](#debian) and [OSX Maverick 10.9.2](#osx).

If instead of installing you want to take a quick look at Faraday you can also use [Docker](#docker).

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="debian"></a>
### Debian, Ubuntu, Backtrack

<a name="install"></a>
Download the [latest tarball](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday/tarball/master) or clone the [Faraday Git Project](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday repository):

```
$ git clone https://github.com/infobyte/faraday.git faraday-dev
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./install.sh
$ ./faraday.py
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="kali"></a>
### Kali

To install Faraday with APT:

```
apt-get install python-faraday
```

Due to Kali's package updates this may not be the last version. If you want the latest updates use the [Debian install steps](#debian).

[ [index] ](#index)


<a name="arch"></a>
### ArchLinux

Before [installing Faraday](#install) you will need to get some user-contributed packages. In order to do this quickly we need an [AUR](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository) wrapper, in this case we will use [Yaourt](http://archlinux.fr/yaourt-en). After installing Yaourt run:

```
$ yaourt -S python2-whoosh pyqt3 python2-mockito python2-couchdbkit python2-flask python2-restkit python2-ipy python2-requests python2-tornado python2-dateutil python2-colorama python2-pip mime-types
```

Now you can proceed to [install Faraday](#install).

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="osx"></a>
### OSX

Tested on OSX Maverick 10.9.2.

##### Xcode 

Go to AppStore and install Xcode. If you run **brew install** first, it'll ask to install Xcode too.

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/xcode.png)

Keep in mind that Xcode is 2+ Gb so it can take a while to download. After this is done go to **Preferences** and install command line tools or open a terminal console and run:

```
xcode-select --install
```

A dialog box will appear asking to install additional tools as shown in the image below. Click install.

![](https://raw.github.com/wiki/infobyte/faraday/images/confirm.png)


**Important!** Before proceeding with the rest of this guide you need to **open Xcode at least once** in order to accept the License Agreement. Please make sure you do that or else some of the dependencies will fail to install.

##### Brew

To install [Brew](http://brew.sh) run:

```
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

##### Python & pip

Run:

```
brew install python
```

Remember never to run brew as root.

More info about [Python in OSX](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/osx/).

##### Git

We need Git in order to get Faraday from Github. Run:

```
brew install git
```

##### Faraday

Run:

```
git clone https://github.com/infobyte/faraday.git faraday-dev
```

##### Python libraries via PIP

Installing Python via brew will also install pip. Now we need to use pip to install the [requirements](#packages):

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

If you have issues building psycopg2 (needed for Metasploit Online Module)

```
brew install postgresql
pip install psycopg2
```

##### CouchDB 

There are two options for this package; [Prebuild Package](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi?path=/couchdb/binary/mac/1.6.1/Apache-CouchDB-1.6.1.zip) or use brew:

`brew install couchdb`

On Maverick 10.9.2:

`sudo ARCHFLAGS=-Wno-error=unused-command-line-argument-hard-error-in-future pip install -r requirements.txt`

##### ZSH

Faraday needs [ZSH](http://www.zsh.org/) to connect to the server. To install it run:

`brew install zsh`

##### Going for it!

Almost there! Start Faraday's server:

```
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./faraday.py --gui=nogui
```

and in another terminal run:

```
$ cd faraday-dev
$ ./faraday-terminal.zsh
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="docker"></a>
### Docker

Docker is great if you wish to give Faraday a try without actually having to install it. In this guide you will find all you need to run Faraday in a Docker container.

If you already tried Faraday and you are ready to use it for real we strongly recommend that you install it in your host OS.

##### Starting up Faraday

Run:

```
# docker run -t -i infobyte/faraday /root/run.sh
```

This command runs the container with Faraday and CouchDB using a test Workspace called "workspace". Inside, Faraday is started with **./faraday.py -gui=no-gui --update** which means without a graphic environment and checking for  [[updates]].

Now to obtain the container's IP address run:

```
docker inspect $(docker ps -lq) | grep \"IPAddress
```

For the purpose of this guide lets use **X.X.X.X**.

##### Web UI
Direct the browser to http://X.X.X.X/reports/_design/reports/index.html

##### ZSH
```
ssh root@X.X.X.X
cd faraday/
./faraday-terminal.zsh
```

##### GUI QT

In order to use this interface run:

```
# docker run infobyte/faraday /root/run_service.sh
```

And now in a different console, get the IP address:
```
# docker inspect $(docker ps -lq) | grep \"IPAddress
```

Again, for the purpose of this guide lets use **X.X.X.X**.

```
# ssh -X root@X.X.X.X
# cd faraday/
# ./faraday.py
```

Keep in mind that all tools must be installed inside the Docker container in order to work.

##### Importing Reports

A different way to upload data into Faraday is importing a Report from other tools using a Plugin. Read more about [plugin types](https://github.com/infobyte/faraday/wiki/Plugin-List#types).

In order to do this copy the report to **$HOME/.faraday/report/[workspace_name]** replacing [workspace_name] with the name of your Workspace. Once it has been processed and incorporated to the database the report is copied to **$HOME/.faraday/report/[workspace_name]/process**.

We can do this by copying the reports to the containers via sFTP or we can use a file sharing function between the host server and containers.

For example:

```
# mkdir -p /tmp/workspace/process
# cd /root/.faraday/report/workspace/
# docker run -t -i -v /tmp/workspace/:/root/.faraday/report/workspace/ infobyte/faraday /root/run.sh
```

Now we can use the tools inside the host server and this is going to be interpreted as if it were inside the container for Faraday in the Workspace called "workspace".

To run nmap:

```
# nmap localhost -xO /tmp/workspace/output_nmap.xml
```

Import a Report:

```
# cp /root/reports/nessusscan.nessus /tmp/workspace/
```

[ [index] ](#index)

<a name="chef"></a>
### Chef

If you want to deploy Faraday using Chef, [Sliim](https://github.com/Sliim) made a cookbook for it! You can find it [here](https://github.com/sliim-cookbooks/faraday/).

[ [index] ](#index)
